Update search relevance docs (#268)
wellcometrust/catalogue: docs/search relevance/README.md

We're collecting data in two distinct ways:

- **Implicit data collection:** users know that their data might be used to understand aggregate user behaviour, but their behaviour on the site is driven by another motive.

> The larger of the two major datasets we're using is passively collected while users carry out searches and look through pages of results. We track the query string, the page number, the works they click on, and whether they're on the Wellcome staff network (we want to be able to distinguish between internal and external users). This data is aggregated under an anonymous session id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The larger of the two major datasets we're using is passively collected while users carry out searches and look through pages of results.

We track:
* The search query parameters, such as the search terms and page number
* The works they click on and its position in the result set
* Whether they're on the Wellcome staff network as we want to be able to distinguish between internal and external users
* The toggles and A/B tests that are enabled or disabled

This data is aggregated under an anonymous session id.
```

> We can collect lots of this data (100,000s of actions logged so far), but it lacks any contextual information and unpicking a user's motivation for an action is hard.

Reviewer: Could we give an example of what contextual information we're lacking to help us think about how we might get it?

- **Explicit data collection:** users are told that they are part of an experiment, and providing us with information is their primary motive.

> Some of the data we've used to measure search relevance is collected in sessions with internal users who know the collection well and the kind of things that users might be looking for, following a set of instructions to obtain data in a useful format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the data we've used to measure search relevance is collected in sessions with internal users who know the collection well and the kind of things that people / researchers might be looking for, following a set of instructions to obtain data in a useful format.
```

The language of a user feels either dehumanising or too abstract... hopefully we can come up with a language around specific use cases, but I still feel person is a good abstraction of someone interested in our wares.

This data is small (20-50 rows per person, per session, with ~10 people taking part), but can be deeply contextualised by talking to the people who took part.

> We're now ready to start collecting explicit feedback through an opt-in mechanism on wellcomecollection.org/works, with all users given the option to rate the relevance of individual results to their query. The resulting data matches the format of the small-scale research described above, but can be collected at a much faster pace with less use of analyst time. The increased sample size and breadth of subjects evaluated should also give us more confidence in the 'goodness' of the changes we're making to our search algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're now ready to start collecting explicit feedback through an [opt-in mechanism on wellcomecollection.org/works](https://github.com/wellcometrust/wellcomecollection.org/issues/4411), with all users given the option to rate the relevance of individual results in relation to their query.

The resulting data matches the format of the small-scale research described above, but can be collected at a much faster pace with less use of an analyst's time. The increased sample size and breadth of subjects evaluated should also give us more confidence in the 'goodness' of the changes we're making to our search algorithms.
```

- **Strict, loose, and permissive precision** use the same data as NDCG. For strict precision, the percentage of results rated 4+ is counted. Loose precision counts the percentage of 3+ ratings, and permissive precision counts 2+. Explained in the book [_Search Analytics For Your Site_](https://rosenfeldmedia.com/books/search-analytics-for-your-site/) by Louis Rosenfeld.

#### Implicit

Among many others, we're looking at:

- **Click through rate (CTR)** is measured passively by tracking users' behaviour while they use the search function. This version of CTR is different to the usual definition; we take the ratio of the number of distinct searches to the number of items clicked on for each anonymised session id.
- **Top n click through rate (CTR5)** is almost exactly the same as the above, but only counts the clicks on works which appear in the top n results.

> - **Click distribution curve fitting** uses plots of the distribution of clicks on the first page of results. This distribution tends to follow a regular exponentially decaying shape, but search variants produce slightly different behaviour. In the simplest case of motivation for a test (wanting to generate more clicks at the top of the set of results), observing differences in the graphs over a sufficient window of time will reveal which variant is performing better. This can also be quantified by fitting a line of the form `y = (a * e^(-b * x)) + c` to the curves and comparing the values of `b`. A lower `b` corresponds to a sharper elbow in the decay, and therefore a steeper concentration of clicks towards the top of the result set.

Reviewer: Could we have a labelled graph showing what we mean by this? This is purely selfish as I work better with being pointed to the visual thing we're talking about.
